The players encounter a group of more experienced adventurers heading in the other direction. If the players are polite, they are given some healing potions.

A naked gnome runs across the path, gasps at the party, then runs back. Cannot be pursued.

A roll of thunder.

A black dog runs across the path.

A lone yellow flower is growing in the middle of the path.

A shadow drifts over the party.

A pool of blood.

The earth shakes briefly.

The sun bursts through an overclouded sky.

A beautiful white horse dashes past the party and disappears.

The players find an encampment of well armed, friendly humans. They may stay the night here and avoid a random encounter for the night.  

A dwarf falls out of the sky and splatters in front of the party. No logical source of the dwarf can be seen.

A player (whoever does the roll) trips over, takes 1D4 bludgeoning damage.

A stranger asks to be escorted to a town, but gives the party nothing for doing it.

The party finds the tracks of wolves going across the path (DC10 Nature/Survival).

A local ranger gives the party directions to their next destination, but he’s an ******* that sends them the wrong way. Increase the journey length.

An arrow strikes a nearby tree, with a note attached to it. The note reads “You are a fool for looking!” No source of the arrow can be found.

A dung beetle pushes a ball across the road. If disturbs, it bursts into a smog, doing 1D4 poison damage and leaves the party member poisoned.

A mystery key is found laying in the road. If used on a locked door, roll a D20. A 20 will unlock the door, after which the key is lost.

A thick fog prevents travel for the rest of the day.

You were travelling in the wrong direction. Add a day of travel to your journey.

A song of rest. Lose any debuffs.

A song of good health. Gain 1D8 temporary hitpoints.

A song of heroics. 1D6 party members gain inspiration.

A song of misery. All party members with inspiration lose it.

A song of battle. The next combat encounter grants double xp reward.

A song of healing. Regain up to half your max HP.

A song of pain. Lose 1D8 HP (after the bard has long since passed).

A song of storms. A storm starts and forces the party to stop for the rest of the day.

A song. Nothing special happens.  

Only useful item for sale is a potion of vitality, 25gp.

Studded leather armour and basic weapons.

Five healing potions, 30gp each.

Basic adventuring equipment.

Wood.

Hunters bounty. Fresh meat, some herbs.

Herbalist (can give directions).

Fisherman

Gem & Jewelery merchant (500gp worth of loot)

Bug catcher. A DC15 Nature check reveals a cartomoth, that will show them a shortcut if released. 10gp.

The party catches up with and overtaking a slow travelling farmer, bickering with his wife. They know nothing useful.

There is an unusually vocal chorus of birdsong. Druids, Hunters, Clerics gain inspiration.

A stranger asks for directions from the party to the last town they left. If they help him, he gives them 1D6x10 gold when they next appear in town, if ever.

A line of Goblin heads on spikes line the road. A sign written in Goblin next to them says “Traitors of Yeemik”.

A man is trapped under a log. If the party helps him, he disappears - it was an illusion.

The party finds a sword in a stone. A DC15 Strength check pulls it out. It is a +1 Longsword.

A flower girl skips down the path towards the party, but disappears before she reaches them.

The party meets an old priest and a young priest, who offer them a blessing. The party has advantage on attacks against undead till they next take a long rest.

A temple is found on a roll. Use a D6 to determine which God, of the six below, it is dedicated to.

Shrine to Tymora - If the party makes an offering, they all gain inspiration

Shrine to Chauntea - If the party makes an offering, the rest of the day has no violent encounters

Shrine to Mask - If the party makes an offering, they get a surprise round in their next encounter.

Shrine to Mystra - If the party makes an offering, all spellslots are recovered.

Shrine to Oghma - If the party makes an offering, they find a shortcut that reduces their journey by 1D4 encounters.

Shrine to Waukeen - If the party makes an offering, they later find the amount they offered in each of their pockets.

Abandoned, unidentifiable Shrine - If the party doesn’t make an offering, they trigger a combat encounter.

Shrine to nature spirits - If the party doesn’t make an offering, a great storm prevents them from travelling any further that day.

Demon Shrine, covered in blood - If the party makes an offering, they trigger a combat encounter.

Shrine to Bhaal, destroyed - Nothing happens.

DC10 Dex check or 1D6 bludgeoning damage, pit fall.

DC15 Dex check or 1D8 bludgeoning damage, pit fall.

DC20 Dex check or 1D12 bludgeoning damage, pit fall.

DC10 Per check or snared, 1D6 bludgeoning damage if cut loose without landing being factored in.

DC15 Per check or snared, 1D6 bludgeoning damage if cut loose without landing being factored in.

DC20 Per check or snared, 1D6 bludgeoning damage if cut loose without landing being factored in.

DC15 Per check or whole party snared by net, roll combat encounter.

A cupcake lays in the middle of the road. If the party approaches, they trigger a pitfall into spikes. 3D6 piercing damage.

Magic rune (DC15 Per to detect) triggers, paralyzing party. Roll for a combat encounter.

Door in the middle of the path. If opened, a Hobgoblin is on the other side and gets a surprise attack. If walked around, the Hobgoblin flees.

I have a tail, but no body. I have a head, but no brain. What am I? (coins, 50gp reward)

What is running around Waterdeep, yet never truly moving? (The wall, Healing potion reward per player)

My rivers are dry, my forests have no trees, my towns are flat and empty, and my roads cannot be walked on. What am I? (A map. The party's journey is shortened)

Two bodies have I, though both joined in one. The more still I stand, the quicker I run. What am I? (An hourglass. Time slows down if they get it, and immediately skips to night if they don’t)

What kind of ear cannot hear? (An ear of corn. Potion of Cure Silence, everyone deafened if they don’t get it)

What has four wheels and flies? (A garbage wagon. Potion of flight if correct, attacked by Stirges if they don’t get it)

A DC10 Perception check spots a small chest hidden a tree. It contains a gold ring worth 20gp.

A DC15 Perception check spots a small chest hidden in a tree. It contains 44gp.

A DC20 Perception check spots a chest hidden in a tree. It contains a +1 Short Sword.

A DC10 Perception check spots a small chest hidden in a tree. It contains a dead mouse.

A strong storm picks up.

The party finds a random cow. No amount of investigation reveals anything of significance about the cow or where it came from.

A stranger asks to be escorted to the nearest town. If the party agrees, the stranger gives them 100gp upon delivery.

A group of excited gnomes bounce past the party. If the party is polite to them, one gives them a useless gizmo that makes a chirping noise when wound up.

A man is trapped under a log. If the party helps him, do a DC15 check. A failure drops the log and crushes the man. He has nothing of value on him, but the saviour gets inspiration if they succeed.

A man is buried in the road up to his neck, with the ground around him undisturbed. If the party helps him, the head pops out the ground and crawls off on spider legs, cackling. The party takes a DC14 Wisdom saving throw, taking 1D10 psychic damage on a failure.

An enormous dragon flies over head.

A DC10 Perception check spots caltrops over the floor which do 1D4 piercing damage to the party if they don’t spot them.

A drunken dwarf challenges the strongest looking party member to a wrestling match. A DC15 Strength check beats her, and she gives the party member 5gp. The party member gains a level of exhaustion on a failure.

A road sign points back to wherever the party came from, but is otherwise useless.

A vagrant asks for food. Nothing happens if they give him some.

A vagrant asks for money. Nothing happens if they give him some.  

A vagrant asks for money. They get triple what they give back if they give him some.

The party finds the tracks of an Owlbear going across the road (DC10 Nature/Survival).

A local ranger gives the party directions to their next destination, shorting their journey.

A mirror image of the party walks towards them, but disappears before reaching them.

The party notices that they are being followed by a bush, which runs into the forest when they attempt to investigate. If they pursue, they find a goblin, that throws a gold coin at them to make them go away.

A stranger on the road tells each PC to repent of their sins. He knows details.

A door stands in the middle of the road. If opened, the frame bursts with confetti, then disappears.

The party finds 100gp in a chest in the middle of the road.

A group of miners are protesting outside a noble’s estate over poor work conditions. They are all covered in coal dust, holding signs that say 'NO ORE NO MORE'.

A noble invites the players to a house party. The noble, a female Dwarf named Bronsyl, wants the party to pretend they are the noble's friends to impress the other nobles at the party.

An older gentleman is yelling at his young apprentice for making a mistake. The older man walks away angrily, while the young apprentice, a male Half-Elf named Sylzaren, is left standing there distraught.

You see the city guards raid a store. Guards preventing people from coming close say that it’s a front for illegal activities. Rumors are that the owners ticked off the wrong person, forgot to pay protection money, and the guards are corrupt.

A child with an obvious injury begging for money pleads to the party for money. Later that day the party sees the same kid running around playing tag.

A terrified ex-Warlock begs the party for help, their old patron sends shadow mastiffs after them every night to kill them. They have not slept in days. Killing the hounds doesn't stop them coming back the next night.

Street sign posts keep moving about in the night, causing confusion. Locals thought it was kids messing around but then 3 people were found hanged from sign posts in one night. Each victim had a compass on their person.

People keep seeing the same thing out of the corner of their eye. A hideous naked old woman with putrid wounds stands watching until looked at directly when she disappears. only one person sees her at a time.

A wealthy merchant offers to pay one of the PC to be the target of a special spell then get them selves arrested so that they can pass the spell effects to another prisoner. The merchant says they will also pay whatever the bail is, but will actually only pay up to 10gp.

A local alchemist shop has caught fire! There is panic in the streets! Water could make the chemical blaze worse. Someone help!

A trinket shop has been ransacked and the PCs know the individual that did it (somebody they like). This individual was being mind controlled, and they were caught specifically stealing an ancient censer linked to a forgotten cult.

As the group walks down the street, they see a Goblin arguing with three guards. Apparently, while apprehending a criminal, the guards heavily damaged the goblins market stand and he demands reparation.

On this street corner, a zealot follower of Helm( or insert god who had bad relations with Orc gods) tries to whip up a mob into a frenzy. Their goal is to lead this mob into the Foreign Quarter and kill any Orc they find. A small force of Guards tries to deescalate the situation.

Three well dressed young men are bullying an old beggar sitting by an alleyway. They kicked his begging bowl over and insult him. If the players decide to step in, the three will begrudgingly stop. They all wear the symbol of a rather influential House.

Two philosophers are having a debate by a street corner. They loudly discuss what does or doesn't constitute a 'Sandwich'. As the group walks by, the older of the two waves you over and asks your opinions on the matter.

A totally drunk half-orc tries to get on his wagon and drive away. His Halfling friend tries to stop him, to no avail.

A rather awkward young man, who looks like he hasn't slept in days, approaches a single character. He asks them to kill him, but wants to be taken unaware. If the player doesn't want to do that, he will pester them for the time they spent in the city, stalking them.

Ricardo, a human Bard, is trying to woe Francesca, the leader of the Fighters Guild. Two things are working against Ricardo though: Francesca already has a secret fiance and Ricardo isn't as good of a bard as he thinks.

A Tiefling merchant selling potions out of a travelling wagon. When asked about the origin of the potions, only vague answers are given. Rouges with ties to the local Thieves Guild might know them.

Some young men have stolen a large keg of what they think is ale. They are pushing it laboriously up a steep hill, joking and grunting from the effort. A few minutes later a frantic alchemist can be seen running around asking if anyone has seen a barrel of Alchemists Fire that has disappeared.

A golem is trudging in a treadmill. Suddenly, the mill comes off its axle. The mill and the golem propelling it, shoot forwards wobbling into the town and picking up speed.

A pair of wagon drivers are preparing to race down the main street of the town. The street has been mostly cleared, although clearly by local gangs rather than any legitimate authority. There is a large amount of betting going on about who is going to win.

A local ditch digger found an inanimate Shield Guardian buried in rubbish in a sewer out spill. The Guardian has a distinctive motif on their shield, chest and helmet. The ditch digger is offering a reward to anyone that finds the device that controls the Guardian.

While walking down the street, the adventurers hear a large crash then yelling coming from a nearby shop. Upon further investigation, they discover a woman's child had damaged expensive goods in the shop and the merchant won't let them leave until the mother pays up.

You’ve arrived in town for the annual harvest festival. Pie eating contests, catching greased pigs, and other fair activities are happening all around you.

A young nobleman is trying to beat his drinking habit. He wants you to stay with him and not let him drink.

A boy hoping to impress a girl begs you to pretend to harass her and then pretend to be driven off when he intervenes.

Two competing chefs want an impartial judge to decide whose creation is more delicious.

You have apparently entered the foreign quarter, as the background chatter becomes unintelligible and the pedestrians more exotic. Some kids in the street lose control of the ball they were playing with and upset a board game two elderly gentlemen are sitting around. You don't understand what the men are screaming about, but it looks like the kids are learning some new words as well.

The beasts of burden (can be horses, griffins, drakes, whatever) pulling a carriage have gotten spooked or agitated by nothing in particular, and the driver can't get them back under control.

A crier, news board or booksellers stall proudly touts the newest tract in an ongoing pamphlet war between two mages which is clearly centered more around a mutual personal grudge than whatever arcane theory they're arguing over.

Two lovebirds with disapproving parents meet in secret. They could be separated by social class, different races, or feuding families.

A religious party is preaching about a god you are not familiar with. It quickly becomes apparent to people proficient with religion he is only preaching nonsense, but many people are paying attention to him.

A beehive falls from a building, and the bees begin to harrass a passing noble. The noble seems to believe your party has something to do with the falling beehive.

There is a project to demolish a condemned building, however the plan fell thru. The demolish crew is now wondering how they can remove the building (safely).

A sewer grate bursts open, and 1d6+3 swarms of rats burst out of it. Underneath, a druid is leading them to overrun a business that has been rumored to pollute the nearby river. These rumors' however turn out to be false.

A protest is taking place after it was revealed the local priest had a mistress. The priest is attempting to skip town and may attempt to bribe to party for assistances.

An apple seller's cart has broken down in front of a tanner's shop. The tanner is not happy about it and has started crushing apples.

Someone is stealing the coins from a well or fountain that people toss coins in for good luck.

A group of monks are showing off fancy fighting moves but one of them looks like they're making things up and is looking around nervously. This person is trying to show someone special they've changed. They haven't.

After the players walk by an open door in the city, on an abandoned street, a player with a Very high passive perception barely sees a tentacles reach out and close the door quietly after they pass. It's the house of a former Warlock and after she died the house has remained sentient and... tentacled. Quite friendly, if shy and full of disturbing stories.

One of the players trip on a loose cobble. Underneath it there is a strange coin and as soon as they pick it up they begin to hear children laughing, very clearly as if they were close, but there is no one here. They cannot discard the coin any way except by making someone else trip over it.

As the players pass by a furniture store a small table hurriedly runs out and walks quietly behind the party. The store owner gives chase and accuses the PCs of theft and the city guard seems in agreement. Turns out there is a faery-base mage/warlock/bard with an Animate Object spell who has been having a delirious amount of fun doing this to innocent people all over town.

Some obvious mobsters want to throw a surprise party for their Boss, but there is ZERO chance this won't lead to a surprising amount of bloodshed so they need to hire some DURABLE people to handle the first few rounds after yelling SURPRISE!

City Guard is inspecting the feet of anyone who comes into town, assisted by a terrified looking academic. On the shoes of the lowest INT player is a Bookworm, that literally eats magical books. This player is arrested by a previously unknown Library Police and made to stand trial for their crimes against education and learning. ONE PC may act as their barrister. One unbelievably nerdy trial later and the fine turns out to be something like 42cp, a fixed price and obviously a nerdy inside joke of some sort.

Everywhere the party's toughest character goes in town, they seem to always accidentally be standing under or next to the image of a Mind Flayer. Even when it seems like they aren't, it turns out they're in the Mind Flayer section, or the Tentacle Room, or in the Tasty Brain bleachers. There is no adventure here, just creepy coincidence you can lean on to make this PC super nervous.

A PC eats a rotten bit of cheese and as a direct result is visited that night be three ghosts. Unlike other stories, they ghosts just want you to help them relive rowdy and drunken days of their misspent youth, while pretending to be giving you 'Moral Lessons'. 'yes yes *Ahem* DON'T spike the punch with *hick* Potion of Delusion and give some to that snotty little Suzanne Winterspoon. While SUPER deserved and funny as hell, it is a thing I encourage all of you to AVOID. *hick* For the sake of you're ahh... souls? yeah. Souls.' While perhaps amusing the real gift here is you now know some CRAZY random facts about people who are now important and highly placed in town.

Someone has been stealing manhole covers and then using Silent Image to make them LOOK like they are there and then mugging people who fall down into the sewer.

The PC with the most languages notices that the laundry drying on twine in the alley spells a secret message asking for help, when looked at a particular way. Turns out an academic has been kidnapped and used as a laundress, but was previously a linguist and used her skill to try and find help.

A small group of children within sight steal a small pet.

A market vendor forces a large lizard with a hood over its head into a PCs hands, and says, 'Finally, take this thing and deliver it to the tower. It might be dangerous so don't take off the hood.' Before he disappears from sight.

A street vendor is selling painted rocks, trying to pass them off as magical items. (Dragon Scales, Basilisk Eyes, Stone-Giant Hearts/ Finger Nails, etc).

The ball from a Ball-and-Stick game goes into the backyard of a house with a scary animal. It is vitally important to get the ball back (secretly if possible).

The Rat Catcher's wagon crashes into the Dog and Cat Catcher's wagon.

A caricature artist is overly insistent that you let them draw you.

A guy/gal is bawling after a particularly devastating breakup.

A young lad/lass Squire is frantically looking for something they lost on their way back to their Knight.

A company has organized a giant scavenger hunt throughout the city. Anyone can participate.

A man barges in to the tavern the party is staying at, shouting and accusing the owner of stealing his secret recipe.

A messenger delivering post has crashed his cart after having one too many ales and his letters are scattered al over the road.

A local bookshop is hosting a signing by a famous author, there are queues around the block!

Bells in the town temple have started ringing in a totally different pattern from normal...

Travelling merchants are racing their pigs around the streets before they take them to market!

Someone has been secretly delivering parcels of coin to select houses in a neighborhood. No-one is sure what the recipient criteria is or who is sending the money but it is causing a lot of animosity between neighbors.

The central square is hosting a public execution of a corrupt official, deaf to the pleas of his wife that he is innocent.

Gwyneth, the Dwarvish single mother, is putting her laundry on a line.

Two twin lizardfolk children are craftily robbing a storefront.

The party watches as a shopkeeper shoos a giant rat away from his trash bin.

A herd of cats have overrun the armory. The guard captain demands no harm come to them, but wishes them removed, concerned they might hurt themselves on the arms inside or an annoyed watchman.

The local library adjoins the local alchemist, who is also head librarian. It has exploded again and the Alchemist/librarian is offering a fare wage to help restore or add to it. Knowledge and history checks to rewrite books, checks for rebuilding the building and shelves etc.

The sewers have finally and violently backed up, after the mayor has refused to pay for them to be fixed, to the dismay of the laborer's offering a fair price.

A trio of goblins on each others shoulders, poorly disguised as a dragonborn (with papier-mache head and tail) are attempting sell a variety of pies for 1 silver each. The pies are quite good and the goblins intend no harm, they however believe they are getting a great deal and will refuse to disclose the contents of the pies, quoting it's a trade secret.

The city is inhabited only by women, older people and children. All adult men are away in the war of kingdoms/counties/landowners and thus women are welcoming and in need of jobs of any kind (light to hard, dull to delicate/provocative) around the household, which they cannot perform.

Someone is taking a bath in the public fountain... they're not taking coins, just bathing.

A shop keep kicks a disgruntled young man out, saying 'I don't read cards! How many times do I have to tell you? Figure it out yourself!' If the party intends on going into that shop (probably an apothecary) he will ask if he can sneak in with everyone.

A group of children laughing and playing, some engaged in a game of knucklebones, others cheering them on, still others singing. When the butcher comes rattling through, all of them sober up slowly but suddenly, and they switch to nursery rhymes, one of which is Sing a Song o' Sixpence.

A well-dressed young man spontaneously combusts in the middle of the road. No one else seems to notice.

A small crowd gathers in the town square as a young man serenades a maiden with a band of troubadours. As he professes his love and proposes, the maiden takes a bard's lute and smacks him upside the head as she leaves.

A cart wheel flies off and the embarrassed owner needs help getting it back on, as well as directions to the market.

A noble’s pet liger has climbed into a tree and appears to be stuck and in need of aid.

Two local inventors are loudly arguing on a main thoroughfare, blocking your path. They are each accusing each other of being a fraud.

A group of bards posts a flyer for an upcoming theatrical production that is highly critical of the local political powers. You are able to grab one before you see local guards tearing down the flyers and burning them.

A group of children sing an ancient prophecy, which has been slightly modified over the years. Ex. “When the stone bird has fled we’ll get fed (actually prophecy ends in we’ll all end up dead)”.

A person looking up from the sewer grates tells the players he'll exchange secrets.

Your PCs are approached by a hooded and cloaked figure that tries to recruit them to join the local cult. The PCs start to unravel a larger plot where the cult has taken over the local government.

A wizard approaches the party and says he's on the verge of a great breakthrough that will make him rich but he needs some reagents from the herbalist shop. Unfortunately they cut off his line of credit and he cant afford to buy it himself. He implores the party to buy the supplies for him.

A wealthy debutante has decided to leave her wealth behind and begin adventuring, and throws one last soiree before giving away her wealth. The PCs are invited.

A small boy is caught trying to pickpocket the pc's. When he is caught her tearfully tells you that it's for the veteran that was hurt in the war.

There is an incredibly long queue for what seems to be an ordinary building, no sign or anything. Upon asking the people in the line, they simply shrug their shoulders and then go back to waiting. Only way to find out is to queue up.

While walking around the city, the party stumbles upon a small public speech being given by a candidate seeking a position on the city council. It is very clearly three goblins in a trench coat, but no one in the crowd seems to notice.

The local Arcane Academy Campus is in turmoil as students riot after their team lost The Big Game. The city has mobilized its guards and the Arcane Academy has raised a protective barrier.

The Party passes by a funeral procession, but can clearly hear thumping from inside the closed casket and a muffled voice calling out.

Two Bards are in the middle of a poetic battle on the street and are unknowingly riling of a crowd and splitting them into factions ready to fight for their bard.

The Party is walking down the street when a seemingly normal man sneezes. The man immediately loses his concentration and polymorphs into a dragon in the middle of the street.

Town crier calling out that 'Bite-Hunting' is now illegal. Upon further inquiry they are informed that there has been a growing trend in the city of people seeking out to be infected with Lycanthropy.

Baker calling out, claiming to have the 'most delicious bread in the realm', but is clearly selling rocks. Customers don't seem to care and are paying the high price for it.

There is a game of (sport) going on in one of the cul-de-sacs as the Party passes by. The Party hears someone call out to them, they need extra players for each side.

The Party sees a manhole cover flying 20ft into the air and crash down on a stall on the street. People flee in a panic as an ordinary-looking rat emerges from the hole.

The city is suddenly filled with a loud sound akin to tornado alarm. Sirens blare and bounce off the stone walls of the city, but the citizens seem to go about their business undisturbed.

A necromancer is attempting to offer undead labor and has gotten into a legal dispute regarding if zombies need time off or not.

You see a small fox on the side of the trail. The animal is injured.

The sound of snapping branches can be heard through the trees.

You see a deer run from cover and start to gallop away from you. Suddenly, you are hit by an arrow.

As you pass through the timberline, you see a wagon under attack by bandits.

A group of 5 adventurers are sitting around a campfire, singing songs. If you approach them, they have tales of a minor treasure nearby to share.

You hear the howl of a wolf. The sound is coming from behind the party.

Two old men are wandering through the forest, singing songs and drinking something out of huge pewter mugs. As players get close, the men stop singing, look shocked, and run away.

A group of hunters are following the tracks of a boar. They are carrying spears and small dogs.

A stone circle in the middle of the forest is covered in blood.

The party is approached by a man with a black eye wearing a black cloak. He asks the party to find his missing packmule. If the party looks in the direction that the man came from, they see another man with a black eye, also wearing a black cloak, running away. That man stole the other man’s packmule.

The party comes upon a bear with her cubs. The mother bear charges at them, but is intercepted by a wolf. The ensuing battle means the players can escape. If the players help the bear, she will let them pass unharmed. If the players attack the wolf, the bear will help them. If players attack both animals, they will stop fighting each other and concentrate on the players.

Sounds of combat echo through the forest.

As the party approaches, they see a raven pecking at something with its beak. The party is able to determine that the raven is pecking at something that is not yet dead.

The party is attacked by a snake. When the party kills the snake, they discover that it is made of paper and is hollow. A local wizard enchanted it for a children’s party, but it went rogue.

A lone traveler is walking down an overgrown trail. He is carrying strange-looking candles and has a large bird perched on his shoulder. If the party approaches, he will shoo the bird and tell them to leave him alone. If offered food or coins, the man will share a story about the local area.

A group of dwarves are playing dice games. They invite the party to join them. They will try to get the party drunk so they can rob them.

A large colony of sparrows is pecking at a corpse that the party just passed. The corpse’s face is covered in blood and its eyes are missing. The sparrows scatter as the party approaches.

The party finds a small field of wildflowers. The flowers smell sweet and can be used as a potent healing salve.

The area is covered in thick fog. No landmarks can be seen unless players are within 5′ of them.

A group of children playing hide-and-seek run from the party, screaming about “monsters.” The children are not disturbed by the party. If the party is attacked by monsters, the children will help out.

A group of loggers are using axes to chop down trees. If the party tries to talk to them, they will not respond. If attacked, they will yell “You attacked us first! Prepare to die!”

A man is tied to a tree, being slowly eaten by ants. He begs for help, but dies before the party can help him. A pile of shiny coins are stuffed into his coat. The rare coins were stolen from a local lord. If the party attempts to use them for commerce, they will be arrested.

While passing through a forest, the party sees a large mushroom. As they get closer, the mushroom opens its mouth and attacks them. This mushroom is a mimic.

The party is attacked by a swarm of insects.

Wind whistles through the trees. The party has a feeling that something is watching them. Nothing is nearby, but a wizard enchanted the area with a fear spell not too long before the players arrived, and some of the residual magic has affected them.

A group of acrobats are practicing their routines in a clearing. If the party comes too close, they will run away.

The party comes upon a large white owl. The bird attacks if approached.

A group of people wearing black cloaks are chanting in the woods. The party can see that their lips are not moving. They are Acolytes of Zan, a local cult that’s up to no good.

A red mist appears at the top of the path. The mist dissipates after a while.

A group of men wearing leggings and tunics made of animal skins are walking down the trail. They are carrying clubs and spears.

A small group of soldiers are walking through the forest. They are carrying torches. If the party is seen at night, the soldiers will attack them.

A deer with antlers made of fused branches is standing in the middle of the trail. It snorts, then charges the party.

A lion is feasting on a cow in a small meadow. If the party approaches, the lion will attack.

A tree has fallen across the trail. The party must either climb over the tree or go around it. Attempting to cut through the tree with an ax reveals that the fallen tree is actually made of metal.

A group of men are setting up a small theater. If the party approaches, the actors will run away. If the party pursues the actors, they will be led to an old hut. Inside the home, they will find a group of elderly people who are afraid of the actors. The elderly people hired the actors to do the play for them, but were too scared to watch it.

A group of mercenaries are setting traps on the trail. If players walk within range of the traps, they will begin to go off. If the party attacks the mercenaries, the mercenaries will yell, “Defend yourselves! You are trapped!” before attacking. They will continue with puns that might distract the players and cause them to fight poorly during the battle.

A group of merchants is leading a group of donkeys carrying sacks of grain. If the party approaches the merchants, they will become defensive and ask the party to leave them alone. If threatened, they will attack.

The party comes upon an old man. His face is covered in blue paint and he is wearing a black cloak. If the party attacks, the old man will disappear. If the party does not attack, the old man will cast a lightning bolt at the closest target, then run away.

A group of adventurers are sitting around a fire. They invite the players to join them. If the party accepts, the adventurers will leave. After the adventurers leave, a group of hobgoblins will emerge from the woods and attack the party.

While walking in a forest, the party hears a voice calling to them from a distance. The voice is coming from a small, circular pool in the middle of the path. The pool is actually a portal to a parallel dimension.

The party can hear a group of people talking inside a house. They are talking about making a trap to kill the party when they walk by.

A group of children are playing in a field. If the party interacts with the children, they will point and scream and run away. A group of hobgoblins hiding nearby will attack the party.

The party comes upon a smith. He is working on a sword and is building a fire. If the party attempts to buy the sword, the smith will attack them. He is drunk and not a good fighter. If the party doesn’t kill him, he will forge all sorts of weapons for them for the right price. His name is Angor Smythe, and he is a member of the Blacksmiths’ Guild.

A group of children are drawing in the dirt with sticks. If the party approaches, they will run away. The drawings are actually complex plans for traps.

The party comes across a small pond. A sickly man is sitting by the pond. He will ask the party to bring him water. If the party refuses, he will attempt to barter with them. If the party brings him water, he will leave. The party will see the man again the next time they start a quest. He will help them in return for their earlier help.

A group of potters are gathering clay. If the party approaches, the potters will attack them with their tools. The potters are actually a group of bandits. They can be convinced to leave.

Two elderly women are arguing on the trail ahead of the party. They are arguing about a third woman. The third woman is a witch. She can be found in a nearby cave. If the party goes to the cave, they will find a slime monster in the cave. The slime monster is the witch’s familiar.

The party comes upon a woman sitting on a rock. She is crying. The woman says she is lost. She will ask the party to take her to a nearby city that is 10 days walk from where they are. She is a member of a nearby town’s Thieves’ Guild. If the party agrees to take her to the city, she will invite them back to her house after she is safely returned. She will poison them and kill them while they sleep if they’re not careful. If questioned about this, she will tell the players she was hired to assassinate them. She doesn’t know much about the person who hired her.

A frog is sitting on a rock. If the party attacks the frog, the frog will run away and summon a group of giant frogs.

The party can hear a conversation coming from a nearby cave. It is a group of 1d4 goblins arguing. They are arguing about their king. They do not want a king anymore. They could be convinced to ally with the party against a common enemy. They would stay after the threat is gone.

The party sees a man walking up the path. He is carrying a large box. If the party approaches, he will introduce himself as a healer from a nearby town. He will offer his services to the party. He has a white dragon tattoo on his arm. His name is Grall, and he is a member of the White Dragon’s tribe. He is a healer, not a fighter. He will stay with the party for a few days if treated well. Eventually, his three wives will arrive to drag him home. He might make a good recurring character.

Sounds of battle can be heard throught he trees. If players investigate, they will find a group of 1d4 elves fighting a giant owl. They will ask the party for help.

The party sees a group of children playing a game. They are using small wooden figures to reenact a battle. If the party asks, the children will tell them the story of a group of bandits who were defeated by a group of heroes. There are three variations of the story. In the first version, the heroes are good. In the second version, the heroes are evil. In the third version, the heroes are a mixture of good and evil.

The party can hear a group of people arguing ahead of them on the trail. They are arguing about a dragon. A dragon is sleeping in a cave not far from the trail. The people arguing about the dragon are not aware of the dragon. The dragon can be woken up by talking very loudly. This won’t go well unless the party can get the other adventuring party to stop arguing or at least be quiet.

Fourteen alchemists are gathering herbs. They are making potions that will go bad if they are not used within a day. The party must escort them back to an alchemist’s guild. They will hand over the potions to another alchemist there. The party will be rewarded by the guild for their service. They will also be given free access to the guild’s library.

A group of bandits are torturing a farmer for information. If the party approaches, the bandits will attack them.

A small group of men are playing dice. If the party approaches, the men will attack them. They will say that they are making sure that no one is cheating.

A group of men are talking to a tree. The tree is talking back. This is actually the work of a gnome illusonist hiding nearby. He is at the end of a years-long con he’s been working. IF players discover the ruse, he will tell them the story of his con. His name is Nicodemus and he is a member of the Arcane Guild.

Two dogs rush by the party on the trail. A pack of wolves is chasing them. The wolves will stop and attack the party. The dogs will return during the battle and fight with the players. If they survive, the dogs will follow the party and become trusted companions.

A wizard named Erasmus is sitting on a rock. He is making a bird perch. If the party asks him what he is doing, he will tell them he is making a perch for a golden eagle. If pestered too much, he will break the perch, transform into a golden eagle, and fly away. If players simply watch until he finishes without interrupting him more, the wizard will reward them with a Staff of Summoning with 1d4 of 4d10 charges remaining..

The party sees a group of 1d12 gnomes playing on a log. They are using toy swords and tiny shields on sticks to reenact a battle. If the party asks, the gnomes will tell them that they are telling the story of how a group of gnomes once fought against a group of hobgoblins. The gnomes won, but they lost many gnomes in the battle.

A group of men are arguing about the location of a treasure. If the party asks, they will tell them that they are following a map that says it is buried under a lone tree. The problem is the men don’t agree on how to interpret the map. One man says the spot on the map labelled “X” is the tree, but another man says it is not. The two men are actually spies paid to get close to the players to glean as much information as they can. Only a DC15 perception check can tell that they are spies.

The sound of owls fills the air, but players see nothing.

A spooky mist between the trees envelopes the party. The party must find a way to escape before the mist steals their souls! The mist is actually an intoxicant that will make the party paranoid and delirious for 1d6 hours.

Several dead deer are lying on the ground by the trail. A raven is circling above. It is waiting for the party to get closer before it swoops down and attacks them.

The party sees a group of people playing a board game. If the party asks, they will say that they are playing a game called “kill the king” and they are trying to advance their piece towards a king’s castle. The person who has the most pieces there is the winner. This is a con run by a group called “Pathfinders” from the Arcane Guild. They are trying to get players to enter a dungeon without them. This dungeon is a Pathfinder stronghold.

The party passes a small cabin. They hear a woman screaming from inside, but when they investigate, the cabin is empty.

A group of vultures flies overhead in high, lazy circles.

Smoke from a nearby campfire wafts through the trees.

The party sees a group of children playing hide and seek. They are about to search behind a tree.

A wild dog howls in the distance. It screams again 20 seconds later.

A song of two lovers can be heard through the woods. If the party investigates, they will find Miranda Hogbottom, a bard of renown in the area. She is trying to write a new song. If the players help her with pyrics, she will reward them with one musical favor.

A group of people are walking through the woods. They are laughing and having fun. The party learns that they are walking to a nearby town for a carnival. The carnival is trying to boost tourism, so the people walking through the woods get in for free.

The party hears the sounds of children laughing. The children are unable to be found.

The party sees 2d10 goblins sitting around a campfire. They are telling the stories of their conquests. If the party approaches, the goblins will challenge them to a game of chance. If they win, the goblins will accuse them of cheating and attack.

A group of men are on the ground by the trail. They are inspecting the tracks on the ground. They say they are on a scavenger hunt. If players join, they will be given clues by the men. They are given one piece of information that leads into a trap.

A group of men are arguing with a group of halflings. The halflings are demanding to be let back into their home. The men are telling them that they are trespassing on private property. If the party stays, they will learn that the home is not a home at all, but is instead the entrance to a dungeon.

A group of 2d6 criminals are being escorted through the woods by a group of armed guards. The criminals are being taken to the nearby town to be executed.

A small deer darts across the trail.

The party sees a rabbit. It is standing still and looking at them. When the party gets closer, it will bolt away quickly.

A group of men are singing a song. They are trying to remember the words. The men are lost and this is one of their attempts at finding their way back to town.

Several owls zoom by, grabbing small mammals from the forest floor.

A group of men are trying to convince a halfling to pay them to escort him to a nearby town. They are threatening him with knives. The halfling’s name is Aaron Hufferhassel. If players rescue him, he will reward them with a Flaming Scimitar +1 on a successful persuasion check.

The party comes across a small altar made of sticks and stones. It is decorated with flowers. If disturbed, odd things will happen to the players while they are in the forest. This will occur more and more often until they return to the altar and recreate it as close as they can.

A deer bolts by, zipping between trees. Before it gets too far, an arrow takes it down. An elven ranger named John Rambwood is walking up to the corpse. He is lost and has been living on deer. When he sees the party, he will try to bribe them with food. If threatened, he will run and try to lure the party into a trap. He will frequently yell, “You drew first blood!”

A group of people are arguing about the best way to hunt deer.

Two elderly men stumble out from behind a tree and fall down. They say they lost their way and were tired.

A crow is watching the party from a high branch. It will follow them for a while before flying off.

The party passes by a deer carcass. The deer was killed with a single arrow right between the eyes. If the party investigates, they will find the arrowhead. It is a golden arrow. A golden arrow can be sold for half of what an actual gold arrow is worth in your world. The deer meat can be salvaged. If donated to the local village, the players will become honorary mayors of the village for a period of 1d12 years. It will quickly become apparent that this “honor” is more of a responsibility. The townsfolk will quickly approach players with their problems, which will continually get worse.

A group of people are walking through the woods. They are talking about how beautiful it is.

A deer darts by the party.

The party hears a vocalist singing a song. A halfling is sitting on a log nearby playing the lute. If questioned, he will tell them that he is singing about a love that ended tragically and that he is trying to capture the moment forever. If players give him a moment of silence while he sings, he will reward them with a Lute of Healing.

The sound of an exotic bird can be heard in the distance.

A group of seven children are playing seven-stones.

The party sees a band of 3d6 dwarves singing in a group. They are marching to a nearby city to celebrate their city’s founding.

2d4 deer are grazing peacefully by the side of the road.

A group of men are carrying a chest through the woods. If the party asks, they will tell them that they are carrying it to a nearby town. The chest is full of gold, silver, and jewels. It is stolen. The men will not have an explanation for the treasure if it is discovered what is inside.

A man and his dog are walking through the forest. They say they are looking for a lost pet. This is not true. The man and dog are following a trail of blood and droppings that lead to an injured griffon.

A group of women are singing by a campfire. The song sounds like a war chant.

A group of people are standing around a campfire. They look like they are celebrating something.

2 half-ogres carry a heavy coffin to a nearby site. Unaware of contents

1 curious nothic has been attracted here by magical energies nearby

1 noble with 1d2 commoner servants is on a quest. They have a veteran family retainer who deals with any dangers or difficulties.

2 rogue tridrones have recently fled Mechanus and are trying to make sense of the strange plane they now find themselves on

1d4+1 giant centipedes feeding on the corpse of a githzerai traveller. They flee if disturbed and lurk to finish their meal

1 orc warchief who has renounced a life of violence and only wants to talk about the peaceful god they now worship

1 mercenary priest needs funds to build a temple is seeking work

1 kuo-toa monitor (whip variant), a renegade trying to find a monastery or other society they can find others searching for enlightenment

1 scarred druid who protects a family of nearby owlbears with young

1d4+1 blink dogs are here to join a festival at a nearby portal to the Feywild. They will try to invite one of the party along.

1d4+2 cultists whose leader was killed by nearby monsters while performing a ritual. Now trying to find allies to help finish ritual.

1 mischievous will-o'-wisp haunts the nearby area. It plays tricks on travelers and flees if attacked before returning later.

The Company of the Burning Wagon is down to two members. A berserker and a spy. They have a map and are lost, hungry and arguing.

1 tired scout is writing poetry but can't quite find the right words

An intellect devourer inhabits the body of a famous singer or bard. They are trying to use it to infiltrate high society and try to join the party

1 awakened giant rat helps party but may steal shiny items for its hoard

1 injured giant vulture has an arrow stuck in it that it can't reach. It tries to ask for aid in removing the arrow.

1 githzerai monk who is looking for a companion who was last seen nearby. Has a book with a few phrases in Common

1 outcast salamander is trying to set up as a weapons merchant and has a few swords. Interested in weapons, scrap metal and tools.

2d4 skeletons are picking herbs and flowers and putting in a handcart. If disturbed they continue with their task as well as they can.

2 cyclops are herding a huge herd of goats following a vision westwards

1 bulette has been enchanted with the mind of a cat. It adopts one of the party, asking for food, treats and someone to play with.

1 scared green slaad in dwarf form seeks news of events, especially magical ones. It almost has knowledge to become a gray slaad

1d2 xorns have located a cache of gems in a nearby pool. They are scared of the water and try to get the party to retrieve gems for them

1 sobbing mage is with an owlbear companion which is trying to console them over a recent break-up

1 young bronze dragon is curious about local area and has taken a vow of pacifism for a year. Asks party lots of questions about surroundings.

A marid has seen one of the party in a dream and gives them an invite to a party somewhere exotic

A clever cloaker trades in magical scrolls and cloaks and keeps a stone golem as protection.

1 questing fire giant claims to be a champion of good and is searching for a hidden shrine to a minor god

1d3+1 werebears who serve a powerful druid are searching for a rare herb. They know its name but can't remember anything else about it.

1 night hag gives a bag of holding full of copper coins to a character.

2d6 priests are looking for a suitable place to start a community promoting love, peace and prosperity.

2 shield golems who are linked to each other are trying to make sense of the world and their place in it.

1 horned devil has spent centuries in the world without trouble. It has collected 99 masks and needs 2 more. It needs help getting them

1 air elemental that is trying to return home via a planar portal high up. It can only be opened by a humanoid and tries to get party to help.

The Flying Fish are adventurers on an elephant. 1d3 knights, 1 druid and 1 scout. They are looking for a new quest after screwing up the last one

1 unusual aboleth desires only to live peacefully among a humanoid society. It still searches for away to do this

1 drow mage is the last remaining adventurer of a group from the Underdark. Now seeks to make a new life on the surface.

2 progressive trolls are trying to find work as mercenaries or guards. Can speak a some Common (Intelligence 8) and wield axes.

1 humorless assassin asks the party to kill them to fulfill a contract. They also ask them to carry out their will and contact their family
